At this point we have what looks like a game board.
But we can actually interact with any of those tiles.
So even if we click them it's basically going pick card not defined.
So that is what our next step is.
In order to create the next step of functionality where we're creating a function that we're going to
call it pick card.
So basically this function gets fired off by the user whenever they click the time card.
So we know that we've got some parameters that we're sending over.
So we know that X is going to be related to what this item is within that array.
So within the tiler Ray we know that X is the index values so we can get what the value is of that particular
tile by picking that up within x.
So let's do that and we could have also passed it as well so as a number of ways that we could take
care of this.
But first let's just pick that up here.
So we're going to pick up the value of the index.
So I and the other thing that we're passing over is this.
So we're going to pick up the value of this within t and we also know that we could console log.
And this is from before that we had that event target.
So basically what happens there is whenever something gets clicked that we actually fire off that target.
So when we click it we get the information related to the trigger of the event.
And this way we can get that information we could get the card information and a whole lot more.
So there's a number of options here that we can make use of.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to check to see if a card is already flipped over and
that's where we need to set another variable I'm going to set a global variable here and I call it
card flipped and I'm I to set this value to negative 1 so that we know that if we've got a negative
one that we don't have that value within the array yet.
So let's create another function and we're going to call it card flip and within current flip we're
going to pass over the two same two parameters that we took in.
So we're going to get the index and the current object that's under this.
So let's create the card flip and here muscle use the same parameters so that in the t that we're passing
in.
And now let's actually update the source of T.
So because we've got t as the object from where we started out by passing again and as this we picked
it up and pick a card and then we passed it over here as well.
So we don't actually have to pass it.
We could do the target as well.
So that would work out the same way.
So we could save ourselves passing a parameter for one or two we could do it within that type of format
as well.
So let's set a value for the source and I'm going to use placeholder the placeholder text again.
So I got a copy and place it in.
So this again this is a Web site that allows you to have dummy text.
And this is the same thing that we're using over here and we've got some options where we can set some
text in there.
So I want to add in
the value that's contained within the tile array.
And within I we're passing through that index value.
So essentially getting the value that's contained within that array and this is also useful if we actually
have images set there then we don't actually have to use the placeholder image.
We can just use the tile array image soever Valuev We've got within that tile array and we can just
simply place that as the source.
So that's the other option that we can set that up and place that in with them the source and also the
other thing too is now that we've flipped over the card.
What I want to do is I want to place this value now within our tile flipped over array.
So we're simply going to push it in there so push that in and we're going to grab the ID of T because
remember we have it as an object and we can push in that ID.
So basically tyle flipped over array is now going to contain that value.
So let's save it and try this out.
So let's hit start.
And before we do one thing I did for yet I forgot to call that a function.
So let's try that out again.
So now we get all of our tiles and when we click it we can actually flip it over so it can flip over
all of the tiles and we do see there's one error there that we've got one coming back as undefined.
So just a quick scan through that we've got sixes so we're missing one of the threes.
So maybe let's try to reload that and see if that actually happens again.
And if it does then we know that we're there's a problem somewhere along the way.
So we're getting undefined.
So what's happening here is that we seem to have a problem here with how we're setting up our values.
So let's do some quick troubleshooting and figure out why we've got undefined.
If I go to inspect we see that we've got card 12 but we're getting undefined so we're passing through
the value of 12 here as X..
And we know that the array we're looking at an array index.
So we know that it's not actually going to be 12.
It should be minus 1 on this index.
So let's go ahead and try this again and hit start.
And this time we shouldn't have anymore undefined.
So sometimes it's always good to kind of do some troubleshooting and make sure that you're not having
any errors or any issues.
And that seems to be working properly.
So it's likely that we caught this one little bug here because we know that arrays start at zero so
our next step is within the pick card function because we noticed that we're not we typically within
the typical game play we can't flip over all of the tiles we can flip over one where we can flip over
a second one if there is no match.
They flip back over.
So we don't have this type of thing where we can just simply flip them all over.
So we need to add the logic now within the game play.
So let's look at our card pick and this is where we can figure out how many cards we've actually flipped
over and if we've flipped over a card and we can see if this is our second card that we're actually
flipping over.
So now we can apply some logic so let's do something here where we know that earlier we had set a variable.
Let's go back up to our variables and we know that we had set this variable of card flipped to negative
1.
So let's do a condition here and we'll check to see if card if card flipped.
So let's grab that value there and we'll check to see if card flipped is larger than greater than zero.
And if it is then we run this once we know that this is actually the second card that we're flipping
over and else.
So if it's not larger than zero then we can still flip a card but we need to set whatever card flipped
value is and we need to set that to the index value that we've sent over.
So that's as we're just going to do that as index value.
I clean this up a little bit.
So basically we're going to know that this is the second card that we're flipping out flipping over
essentially and this is where we need to apply even more logic within our application because this is
where we need to check to see if it's a match.
And if it is a match then we leave the cards flipped over so we don't flip them back.
And if it's not a match then we set an interval and we flip the cards back over.
So let's set up that condition.
So we're going to do a condition to see if it's a match.
Add some logic in there and else.
So if it's not a match then what we're going to do is we're going to type into the message and do into
the in our aged him.
And we're going to say no match
and next let's set an interval.
So another global variable.
And I know I've got quite a bit of global variables.
But usually I like to work with the global variables first because it's easier to debug.
And then afterwards I'll remove out the global variables.
So let's set up let's declare a timer and then we'll make use of timer down here within this condition
where we'll set the timer and we're going to set an interval.
So basically this will
hide the cards and the reason I'm doing it as an interval is because I want to make sure the cards hide
so nothing else gets in the way and I can always clear that interval as well so let's do another function
and we're going to hide the cards at 1000 1000 milliseconds so basically after one second so let's go
ahead and create another function.
So no I've got one open over there that I still need to finish off before we can even try the game.
So this one is called Hide card.
And basically this function will take the flipped cards and they're going to basically hide them so
let's do a quick overview of what we've done within our code so far.
So every time the card is clicked we're passing some values into our pick card and within pick card
we're passing it over into card flip.
So if we do have the availability we pass it over into card flip and in card flip where updating the
source and we're flipping the card over we're adding it to the tile flipped over.
So basically what that means is that we've got an array of all the cards that have been flipped over.
And now we can make use of that because we know that the last two cards that got flipped over we can
find out what the values of those are.
So basically we need to check to see if the last two items in the array the tile flipped over array
have a matching source.
And if they do that we know we found a match to our files.
So let's create one more functions.
Let's open that up and we're going to basically check the source of that element because we've got a
listing of the elements whenever we hit the card flip.
We're actually posting the ID of the element that is contained.
So whenever we click these and this is where we need to check the source of that and that this is going
to be a really short function where we're basically going to grab the source and where we're going to
return that back.
So let's post a variable in here so let's just use a and let's use variable or we can simply just return.
So we're going to return back to the source.
So this is Document get element by id and the element is going to be a.
And we're just going to simply return back the source.
So the reason I'm doing it within a function is because that's just going to simplify our conditional
statement.
So now we know that we can get a conditional statement and we can check the source of a particular value.
So we know that if we check the source of one compared to the source of the other one and if they're
matching then we know that we found a match.
So then we can take that message that match found.
And if they're not matching then we know that there's no match and we can go ahead and we can hide the
card.
So we need to find out how we can get to the last elements that are located within the range that we've
been setting up.
So the last elements that are within the flipped over array and that's the value that we have to pass
within the check source.
So the best way to get the last element is I know this is kind of long but we can do length minus one
to get that second last item within the flipped over tile flipped over array and then we can do the
same thing for the other parameter.
And this one we can do minus two.
So let's let's try this suit and this time let's click and we see that no match was found.
So we know that when we restart it and again no match is found.
So that looks like it's working.
And in the next lesson we have to build out some more logic here where we need to flip these cards back
over and we need to clear out the interval and so on says quite a few things that we need to do in the
upcoming lesson.
So do take a look at the code so far and try it out for yourself.
Try applying some logic here grabbing the last elements and making sure that we're able to pick up that
information that we've passed in here.
And we also will also need to be able to grab the ID of the element because we need to be able to flip
it back over and that's what we're doing over here where we're checking the source.
And when we go to hide the card we can grab the source and we can re update the source values as well
just by using that ID.
So the same thing that we did over here grabbing the element by ID.
We can also do it and implement it when we're hiding the card.
So I showed you how to do that.
Coming up in the next lesson.